[Julian] When I look in
the mirror, I feel disgusted.
I mean, why would you get this way,
you know, look what you've become.
Please! Just a little
glimmer of hope.
I just want to be
a normal person.
[breathing heavily]
You can't do it and then
I just get mad.
If I don't make a change now,
I'm scared it's gonna be too late.
[groaning] No! It hurts!
I refuse to stop fighting. I
have to do this for my children.
[Julian] It's basically
my nightmare.
It's a pinche tornado.
- Baby, we can't take all the boxes.
- We have to!
[Julian exhales]
[Julian] My life has been
seriously impacted
because of how high
my weight is now.
With how big I am, it's
hard to do much of anything.
With all the weight
that's just on my legs,
each step I take
is painful for me now.
So I have to go slow
to manage them.
So that I don't get
out of breath.
Because that can lead me
to passing out.
So my breathing is limited. So I
have to be careful to just do anything.
So I only get up
for limited things really.
The main one being to cook.
That's one of my passions.
And it's something I'm good at.
So, usually what I do when I first
get up is make breakfast with my wife.
[Irma] Julian's probably
the best cook I know.
I mean, I love everything
he makes for me.
But I would have to say that my
favorite meal that Julian cooks for me,
it's salmon
when he cooks it in butter
and then he makes asparagus
next to it and brussels sprouts
[Irma] He's very good at
making meals that taste good.
But getting more worried
about him.
So I do want him to eat better.
But the dynamic right now is
that he makes whatever he wants
and that's what we eat.
[Julian] Me and Irma also live
with my grandmother and my mom.
So I also cook for them
at times too.
But I mostly cook for Irma.
Because we're always together.
I wait until around 12 o'clock
to eat lunch
and then
I'll snack until dinner.
But I feel the best meal of
each day is usually the first.
Once I have that ready, I
have a lot of excitement about it.
Because it's something that brings
me great pleasure and happiness.
Eating is a big joy to me
in my life.
Because it's a time
when nothing bad can touch me.
Eating makes me feel better, so there's no
moment in my day when I'm not wanting that.
And eating is an activity
I do most of the day now.
So, food has a central point
in my life and it's what I follow.
And I know it's what led
me to decide that I am now.
Oh, that was good.
- All right, you want to take the plate?
- Yeah.
[Julian] But even knowing that
hasn't slowed my eating down.
But I know I need to somehow.
Because how difficult it is
now to do the things I need.
But I try to do all that I can
on my own still, you know.
Because it makes me feel less of
a man when Irma has to help me.
[Julian exhales] Okay.
[Irma] Julian has gotten to a point
where I have to help him in ways
that I know he wishes I didn't.
I'll call you when I am
ready for you to do my back.
I'll come.
[Irma] Like, with showering
and then if he uses the restroom.
I might have to help him
with that too.
But I know that it hurts him
that I have to do that, you know.
[shower hisses]
I do think
that Julian gets embarrassed.
On asking me to, like,
to help him wash his backside.
Like, he does try to do
as much by himself.
But I'm just afraid that he's
going to push himself too hard,
and get hurt.
That's one of my fears.
- Babe!
- Yeah.
- Can you come clean my back?
[Julian] I wish I can
do more on my own,
but sometimes,
I have no choice anymore.
And I hate that I'm like
this now with my body.
And how I let it get like this.
When I look in the mirror,
I feel disgusted.
I feel like, "Why would you
get this way?" You know?
"Wow, look
what you've become."
So, food has made me
get like this.
But it's something that's helped
me through a lot of bad in my life.
And it's been like that
for a long time.
- Is that it?
- Yes.
[Julian] Things were good
for my early life.
I grew up with my mom
and my two younger sisters.
And we had the best of times
that we can make it, you know,
growing up in Detroit, Michigan.
My father wasn't
part of the picture.
And so my mom had three jobs
just to put a roof over our head.
But we didn't have a lot.
And a lot of times,
me and my sisters
didn't know when the next
time we was going to get food.
So when we finally did
get food, I ate a lot of it.
So food started to be
a comfort for me.
Because if I had it,
I felt better.
But I really didn't start my gaining
until my mom married my stepdad.
He treated us nice at first,
but he was a mean person.
Like, who he really was
started to come out.
So it turned into a nightmare,
having him as a stepdad.
I think Julian, he always felt
like he was the man of the house.
But then
he had to fight the battle
of being not the man of the house
because the husband came in.
So they had
their little battles.
[Julian] But I had
tolerated him.
And one of the main ways
I knew to do that was to eat.
And that's when my eating got
worse and I started to gain weight.
From being around 50 to
60 pounds when I was seven,
to being and 170 pounds
when I was 10.
That's when I started
to stand out as "the big kid."
So I started getting bullied
and beaten up.
So, middle school
was a terrifying place for me.
So I ate a lot to deal with the
bullying through middle school.
And that just made me bigger.
And so I was around 400
when I started high school.
That's when things
started to change.
Because in high school, that weight
came as an advantage in football.
Because I was a big guy,
I was football ready.
So when I started doing that, I
didn't get picked on or bullied as much.
So that made school
better for me.
And for a while, you know, they
didn't know me as that fat kid.
They knew me as the kid
that played football.
But my size
also helped me at home
because things kept getting
worse at home with my stepdad.
You know, he tried to beat me
with a bat one day when I was 17.
That's when I realized, you
know, I was bigger to him now
and I saw that as a positive.
But when my mom found out,
she said, "Well, this can't happen
and you're gonna have to go."
And I was like, "Oh, so
you're kicking me out for him?
And he the one who's
beating me with the bat?"
And she was like "No, I'm not
doing it for him, I'm doing it for you."
She feared for my safety at that
time, so she kicked me out of my home.
So then we called my grandma
and she was like, "Get him on a bus.
I'll pay for it right now.
He'll stay with me."
And in three days,
I got to Arizona.
I hated Arizona, and I was upset
against my mother, you know.
Because she was the one who
caused me to lose everything.
My school, my friends
and football.
And it was hard for me because
I was alone and starting over.
But when I was eating, that's when
the hatred of Arizona went away.
'Cause I was able to just eat.
So I've gained up to 540 by
the time I finished high school.
But eventually, my step dad
would get arrested on a gun charge.
And he spent
a good three years in jail.
Right after that, my mom
and my sisters moved down.
And I felt like at that time,
when I was about 20, 21,
we started to be a family again.
Just me, my mom
and grandma and my sisters.
Felt a lot of responsibility
to them at that time.
So I took it upon
myself to get into a trade.
So I got my certification
to become an electrician.
And I ended at the top of
my class when I graduated.
And because of that there was a really good
electric company that was willing to hire me.
But when they saw me,
they didn't offer me the
position. Because of my weight.
I had to take another job,
and it was a call center.
I ended up just going
back to my old eating habits.
So, you know, I was up to about
580 pounds over the next year.
I was like 23 then, but I did
also want to try to meet someone.
And I tried
to better myself for that.
So I was starting working out.
But the working out
led to me getting a hernia.
So that was
another disappointment for me.
But I didn't let that
stop me from dating.
I did think to myself that my
weight problem could be an issue.
Me personally, I never thought I
would have found a wife anyway.
But I did.
And, it was the best thing
that ever happened.
When I found my wife,
I just knew she was the one.
My first thought when I met
Julian, I wanted to hug him.
I always tell him "I just wanted to
tell you I love you right then and there."
And I'm like you probably would have thought
that I was like a psycho or something.
But yeah.
- I'm gonna go ahead and get the grill started.
- Okay.
[Julian] Around that time,
I lost my job
because they were
discriminating about my weight.
And I was on the verge
of losing my apartment.
I had nothing to offer for
their security at that moment.
But I asked her to move in
with me. And she did that.
At the time, her grandad,
he didn't like me very much.
Irma was his first grandbaby.
And you know, this new man
coming into your family.
I can understand
his hesitation to me.
But what I didn't understand
was when I stayed the night,
he must have
just got pissed off,
and cussed me out royally
in Spanish.
I didn't think I did
anything wrong, so I left.
I didn't expect her
to choose me over her family,
but 20 minutes later, while
I'm waiting at the bus stop,
she comes running
right after me.
And she's like, "I'm going with
you. He's not about to do this."
That's when I knew
she was going to be my wife.
So we got married,
but we couldn't have
the wedding that we wanted.
Because of my size.
Since then, I continued
to gain even more.
I crossed into the 700s.
And I was 790.
So my weight has taken
every bit of my life away.
But the biggest is that
it's keeping me and Irma
from having a family of our own.
You know, at my size, my chance
to have kids could pass me by.
And that's the most
heartbreaking for me.
So, I know
I have to lose the weight.
But that's easier
said than done.
My life revolves around
what I'm going to eat next.
It's what drives me
through the day.
But I'm getting very scared about
how much time I have left at this size.
And I know Irma
is getting scared for me too.
- I checked on the potatoes, they are not done yet.
- Okay.
[Irma] I'm scared that I could lose
him if he doesn't do something about it.
I want to grow old with him. I don't
want to grow old with anybody else.
But I'm so scared right now
that one morning I will wake up
and he won't.
[Julian] I tell Irma that I want to
lose weight as much as she tells me.
And I know she has
other fears about it.
You know, she also scared
about me losing weight too.
Just to the simple fact that she thinks
I'm gonna leave her for somebody else.
But I'm not.
[Irma] It's hard not to be afraid that things
will change if he doesn't need me anymore.
[Irma speaking]
[Julian] I love you too.
[Irma] Once he loses the
weight, and I tell him that fear,
well, he's all like, "Babe, I
am not going to leave you."
He's all like, "Just because
I get smaller does not mean
that I'm not gonna wanna be with you,
like, I'm not about to do that to you."
[Irma] But it's still a fear,
even if it is a stupid one.
But even if he did, you know,
I would rather him be alive.
So I do hope that
he is able to lose his weight.
Even if he doesn't,
I'll tossing him to the side.
- You want me to help you with the plates?
- Yeah.
[Irma] Well, just hand me
mine, you can take yours.
[Julian] I'm looking to change
to be a better husband.
Because I know
I'm letting Irma down.
Because I promised her something
better when we got together.
He knows how sad I feel that
we can't go out on date nights.
Because I vent it to him
all the time.
But he won't go out. I mean,
if he does it's for food, not me.
And that's upsetting.
- Was they finished?
- Yeah. I'm fixing them now.
- All right, I like a lot of sour cream.
- I know.
[Julian] So with the
breaking point I'm getting to,
I'm going to go out of my comfort
zone to try to get help from Dr. Now.
Irma has been
pushing me to do that.
And I know I'm at a point
where that's the option I need.
So I'm going to try
to go to him and get his help.
I just have a lot of worries
still about my ability to succeed.
You know, I'm ready to do
what I have to.
If somebody
can give me guidance.
And help intervene with
something like weight loss surgery.
If I can have the chance
for that path,
then I'm ready to do whatever
it takes to make it happen.
So I can make for a
better life for me and Irma.
Here, take this too,
cause I'm not eating it.
Honestly, our intimacy
has changed a lot.
[Irma] We can't be together,
like, we were because he's too big,
I mean, like,
I really do love him.
But it frustrates me to the core
that he has not lost the weight yet.
Because I have no doubt that he can
do it if he really wanted to, you know.
And I need him to start trying
before it's too late.
[Julian] I know the odds of
something very bad happening to me.
So I tell myself everyday.
You know what,
"Forget the dangers outside.
I'mma just go ahead and get up
at 6:00 in the morning and go walk."
And start eating right
like I should be doing.
But then I wake up
and I give in right away.
Because the cravings are too
strong, you know. It's too much for me.
But that has to change now. Because I
know I need help to lose all the weight.
And I know if I don't get it,
I'm not going to make it.
And I'm hoping that Dr. Now will it
be able to give me the help I need.
Because if I don't get that,
I'm very scared about the future.
And what's gonna happen
to me soon.
I'm nervous about this trip,
this long ride.
Thanks for taking me.
- I love you, boo.
- I love you too, baby.
[Julian] Today, we're gonna
start heading to Houston.
And me and Irma are just looking at
our route we're gonna have to take.
And how long it's going
to be for me on the road.
And that's my first fear. Being shoved
into a small space for a long time.
And how that's gonna be
on my whole body?
And then also just all the
things that could go wrong.
I almost had a panic attack.
Thinking about, like...
[Irma speaking]
I was just thinking about... What if
something happens? on our way there.
We in the middle of the road and
I gotta be rushed to the hospital.
Something happens to me on
the road and I get stuck, like...
You know, I have a huge panic attack
where I think I'm having a heart attack.
Or I can have
a natural heart attack.
And not have any help nearby
because there won't be an ambulance
that I can fit in,
in an emergency.
That's the most thing
I'm afraid of.
You know I'll be thinking.
- I think the luggage is in the refrigerator.
I mean-- - In the refrigerator? [laughs]
- In the closet sorry.
- All right, baby.
[Julian] This is scary. But I
know it's a fear that I have to face.
Because there's
no help for me here.
- If you could grab my shoes.
- Okay.
[Julian] So my only option
is to go where there is help.
And that means I have to travel
what looks to be a 15 hour drive
according to the maps.
It's just gonna be
very hard on me.
Even doing what we have to do to
get packed, I'm getting sore, you know.
Already my legs
and back is hurting.
So I'm just worried about
how this is gonna go.
- Okay.
- Okay, push it down.
But I'm hoping by doing this I
get the help I need from Dr. Now.
[Irma] Julian is very afraid
right now.
He's had some panic attacks throughout
the night, worrying about the trip.
About, what could go wrong.
But I've been trying to calm him
and telling him that everything's
gonna be okay, you know.
- That's good.
- We did it.
I feel like it's going
to be very tiring.
And I know being in the car for
that long, it's going to be hard for him.
But I know he can do this
and will be okay.
I think what he's worried
about the most is
that we are going to make it all the
way to Houston and once we get there,
Dr. Now is going to reject
him because of his hernia.
[Irma] That's his big fear. But I'm
not worried about that, you know.
I'm just glad Julian is doing
this and he is trying for this help.
I'm feeling optimistic about
the appointment with Dr. Now.
I do have good hopes.
Hopefully he is able to tell him
like "You know what, yeah, let's
go ahead and get you approved."
I know it might not
happen on the first try, but,
and hopefully
he'll just like say yes.
And hopefully there is no medical emergencies
or no car emergencies or anything.
And just wanna have a good trip.
[Julian] My plan is to sit in the
back and get as comfortable as I can.
I'm making a little palace
so I can lay down.
And try to stretch out to keep as
much strain off my body as I can.
[Irma] You're gonna
come in through here, Baby?
- No, I'm setting up all the pillows.
- Oh okay.
[Julian] So we can keep
going as long as possible.
Our goal is to go between six to eight hours
at a time with as few stops as possible.
- You need help now?
- No. I'll get in.
[Julian breathes heavily]
[Julian] So we can
get there in two days.
But that all depends on
how I'm handling the trip.
[Julian breathing heavily]
- Do you need me to get my seat up?
- [Julian exclaims] No.
- You sure?
- [panting] No. I'm okay.
[Julian] And how Irma
is handling the driving
because it's all on her
for that, you know.
And I wish I can drive
too, myself,
but if everything goes well, I
should be behind the wheels soon.
[Julian breathing heavily]
[sighs heavily] Oh God.
[Irma] I know, baby.
Trust me, it will be
all worth it, my love.
Okay.
I'mma try to just listen to
my music in my headphones,
try to keep myself calm.
[Julian] Okay.
Go ahead.
And depending on
how my body is doing,
see how far we can make it
before we have to stop and rest.
I'm already exhausted, but I'm gonna
try to hold out as long as I can like this.
You know it's tight,
but I think I can manage.
Our plan is to be able to get there
in two days if I can handle that.
But we added an extra day in
case I need a little more time.
So my appointment
is in four days,
and if it all goes well, I'll have
a full day of rest in Houston.
But we'll see!
- [Irma] How you feeling, my love?
- My butt is getting numb.
You said we have about
20 minutes left?
Now we have 11 minutes.
- I'm pretty sure tomorrow will be longer.
- Yeah.
- That's when the real test of time will come in.
- Oh yes, sir!
[Julian] I made it
as far as I could,
but my whole lower body
is in a lot of pain.
So I need to get out and rest
before we can continue.
- I just need your help with getting my shoes on.
- Okay.
[Julian groans]
[panting]
- My baby, you're all sweaty.
- Yeah. It is hot.
[Irma] Watch it with the door.
It's really heavy.
Oh, there you go.
- Oh, this is nice.
- It is nice.
[Julian sighs heavily]
Oh! Oh, yes!
[Julian exhales]
[Julian] What do you think
this guy's gonna say?
I don't think he's gonna say a lot, baby.
I think he's just gonna say like, 750?
I wanna say 752.
Like, what if the scale is
more than what we think it is?
- Like... I know baby.
- That's gonna be a shocker, you know.
I am not letting you mess
this up, baby. Hell no!
Like, I know, that he ain't gonna
approve you "right now" right now.
No, no.
- But I mean like the next time, you have no excuse.
- Yes, ma'am.
[Julian breathing heavily]
Valentine?
[Julian] It's been awhile
since I was on a scale,
but my highest weight
I've been at was 798.
I'm hoping I'm down closer to
the 750s and not still in the 790s.
If I had to guess, I think his weight
is probably like, around 730, maybe.
[Julian] So I'm looking for
some weight loss right now.
Okay, you can step up
on the scale.
Because the bigger I am, The
less I have time to change things.
[Julian] I'm at Dr. Now's,
for my first appointment.
And I'm about to find out
what my weight's up to.
Your weight is 830.
[Julian] That's crazy.
- We're going to Room 5.
- Okay.
[Julian] I was scared
that I was close to 800,
and now I find out
I'm over that amount.
So it's worse, and I know
that's hard for Irma to absorb.
And I know it's just a shock
for her. It's a shock for me, too.
[Julian speaking]
[knock on door]
-Hello, how are you'll doing?
-We're doing good. how you doing?
- [Dr. Now] Good!
- Good.
- All right, you must be Julian?
- Yes.
- And who is this with you today?
- My wife, Irma.
- Hi.
- All right, nice to meet you guys.
- You are coming from Arizona?
- Yes.
- Tucson, Arizona?
- Mm-hmm.
Well, you are 830 pounds. So doing
all that puts a lot of strain on your body.
So that's gonna be as issue
with you coming here.
But before we get into all that,
tell me what brought
you all the way here?
I want to take control back of my life and
I hope I can get this weight loss surgery.
Well, doing surgery on someone
your size is going to be difficult.
- But listen. Your BMI is 112.
- Yes.
And, do you know
what the normal BMI is?
I think around 60.
- It is 18 to 25.
- Oh! 18 to 25.
So, you're way over that.
And you're almost
the highest BMI we have seen.
- And you are what, 33 years old?
- Thirty-three.
Okay. You know the risk of
people have a sudden death
- with this BMI is very high.
- Yes.
So every day you wake up
is the roll of the dice.
- Whether that day will be that your heart is gonna give up...
- Mm-hmm.
And if it does, there is nothing
anybody can do to resuscitate
or bring you back.
- Yes.
- Okay.
- Your body is made to be 200 pounds.
- Yes.
And you're 800. You're killing
yourself with food for a while now.
And you still
haven't stopped overeating.
So what is different today after 33
years that's gonna make you change
that hasn't, up to today?
[Julian sighs]
Um, I wanna have children.
Okay, well, that's good then.
But then the question is,
why haven't you tried to
change to have kids before now?
I have.
I just couldn't stick to it.
So, your gonna stick with it?
- I'm sticking with it 110%.
- That's what your telling me?
- I'm telling you I'm sticking with it.
- Okay.
Well, I hope that's true
because if you continue like that,
then you won't
be around much longer.
- You understand that?
- Yes.
- So, at this point, since you live so far away...
- Mm-hmm.
I don't want you to come back until you lose
the weight loss goal I'm going to give you.
Because there is no reason
to put that strain on your body
if we're not gonna
move ahead with you.
So, we'll set up an appointment
at a clinic in Tucson for you
to get your weight checked.
And if you've
made it to your goal,
then, the next step is you're gonna have to
move down to Houston to do the program.
So, is that something
that you can do?
[both] Yeah. We can do that.
Okay, I'm gonna give you
instructions that will show you
- how to lose 100 pounds in two months.
- Two months.
So, you're gonna have a diet
that is low-carb, high protein
that limits you
to 1200 calories a day.
And if you comply with it,
you're gonna be able to lose
more that 200 pounds in two months.
But the goal I'm giving you is
to only lose half that in that time.
- So, there is no excuses, okay?
- Okay.
So, stick to that
and what it says.
And if you stick with it
from here on out,
then, you're gonna be able to lose
600 pounds in a period of 18 months.
Okay.
- That's almost about three to four big people.
- Yeah.
So, that's all. But you can do it if
you stick to what we tell you. Okay?
- Thank you.
- Any questions?
No. I'm, I'm okay.
I'm good.
All right, I've seen your chart.
You've had the hernia repair
in your stomach?
Yeah. I do have
an umbilical cord hanging.
Let me see what kind of scar
that ended up in there.
- Well, you still have a hernia.
- Yeah. I still have it.
- All right, let me go get some stuff for you, okay?
- Okay.
[solemn instrumental
music playing]
My biggest concern for Julian right
now is how high his weight and BMI is.
[Dr. Now] Thankfully, he is
not bedridden at this point.
And he is still able to
have some level of activity.
It would be much worse
if that wasn't the case.
But the amount of strain that is on his body
from his weight is very dangerous for him.
To where it is just a matter of
time before something happens
that pushes his body to a breaking
point, and he doesn't survive.
All right,
let's go over some things.
- This, um, first six pages explain what metabolism is.
- Mm-hmm.
- And what healthy eating habits should be.
- Okay.
Julian is the only one who can
start to make the changes needed
to avoid his body getting
to a breaking point.
So, it's very important
he understands that.
And starts to lose as much
weight as he can. As fast as he can.
Reduce the strain he has
on his whole body
before he let's it
get to a point
where something happens
and he runs out of time.
And until he does that, everyday
for him is a roll of the dice.
Where he might not make it.
And this is... my book.
- And in chapter 12...
- Uh-huh.
You've got a list of exercise,
and to build up your stamina.
- Okay. Okay.
- Okay?
I'm going to give you
two months to lose 100 pounds.
We will check that
at a local clinic with you
- to see where you are and go from there.
- Okay.
- You think you can do that?
- I can do that Dr. Now.
- Under 700 pounds.
- Okay?
- Gotcha.
All right, I'll see y'all later.
- [Julian] See you later.
- See you.
- All right, take care.
- [both] You too.
Yeah. I'mma get started.
I'm gonna do this, babe.
- I'm gonna have to do it too.
- That's good. I was hoping you would do it with me.
Yep.
[Julian] This could be my
last chance to live longer.
So, I'm gonna do everything
Dr. Now says from here on out.
And I know it's gonna be hard.
Maybe the hardest thing I ever do.
Thank you.
But I'm in a fight
for my life now.
So, from here on out,
there's no tomorrow.
I either do this,
or I'm not gonna make it.
- I love you.
- I love you too.
I hope it's good.
[Julian] I've been spending the past
month working hard at making progress.
I started it all as soon as we got back home
since the road only had fast food options
But since then, I've been
sticking to Dr. Now's diet.
And doing all his exercises. And I'm feeling
pretty good about my progress so far.
All right babe,
let's get to working out.
Especially with my exercises. Because I've
been doing some boxing with a punching bag.
And Irma's been
doing it with me.
[Irma] You got this, baby.
Come on.
When we first got back,
the first thing we did is went
to go buy that punching bag.
- Holy [bleep]
- Sorry.
You're good, you're good.
Keep going.
[panting]
[Irma]
Don't forget to inhale, baby.
- [Irma] Three, two...
- [Julian whispers] One.
- Your turn.
- Okay.
[boxing bell rings]
Jab, jab, cross.
Jab, cross.
- Oh, I'd hate to get hit by you.
- Ha-ha.
Okay. I'm done.
[Julian] So, I'm gonna keep
working at this over the next month.
So that when I go to the
doctor and get my weight,
I'm where I need to be
so I can move to Houston.
And be ready to take that leap
when we have to,
if it means I'm gonna get
the chance for surgery.
But I know it's gonna come down to
me meeting my goal by next month.
So that's what I'm working
my hardest to do.
Oh, Lord in heaven.
Me and Irma are headed
to the local clinic today.
Dr. Now said it at first
to go there to get my weight.
And if I made it to my goal, he said he
was gonna tell me I could move to Houston,
to be a part of his program.
And get weight loss surgery.
Julian!
[Julian] In my last appointment
two months ago, I was 830 pounds.
And Dr. Now told me
to lose 100 pounds.
If I succeed,
I'll be under 730 today.
Okay, you must be
over the weight limit.
Um. it's not
reading your weight.
Oh, okay.
-[nurse] Okay. Follow me to the room.
-Okay.
[Julian] I don't think
that's right.
I know how hard I worked
for the past two months.
You know, I've done the diet and
I've done the workouts everyday.
So, there's no way
I'm over 800 still.
You know, now I have to tell
Dr. Now "I'm over the limit."
It's upsetting me because he's not gonna
think I've been working as hard as I have
when I know I did.
So, I'm just frustrated
right now.
- Hi Dr. Now.
- Hi, Julian, how are you doing?
I'm doing good.
And yourself?
- Good.
- That's good.
So, what's going on with you?
- Where's your weight at today?
- Um, well, the scale couldn't read my weight.
Well Julian, the scale that you got
over there, goes up to 800 pounds.
If it could not read your weight, that
means that you're still over 800 pounds.
The changes I have made, um,
the diet I was stuck to... I wanna say--
I don't want to say perfectly. But I've
stuck to it. I started doing meal preps.
- Well, how many times you eating in a day?
- I only eat twice a day.
Well, you should have
lost weight, but you didn't.
So your eating more than
you think with your meals.
Sometimes I have pork rinds. I see
those are 70 calories with no sugar.
I am. I'm going to do it.
I only ate pork rinds one--
Then how come you
haven't lost any weight?
I really can't tell
'cause of the scale.
I know you said it goes up to 800. But
I don't know. Like I said, I could be 801.
And the scale cannot read
your weight because your weight
is still over 800 pounds.
So, what is the point of
coming back in here and see us?
Because I'm sticking to it.
Well, if you're sticking to it, then you're
gonna show some positive changes.
Oh yeah.
I'm definitely gonna show it.
I believe if I was there, it'll
be a different story than here.
Well, you're not showing it
on the scale.
So, there's not much we can do if you
don't start changing your eating habits.
So, whatever you're eating,
cut back and eat less,
and I'm going to give you
another two months
to lose 100 pounds from 830.
So if you lost 30 pounds,
you have a leg up.
And then we'll bring you back
here and check your weight again.
And if you make it to your goal,
then you can move
to Houston to do my program.
If you want to continue.
But until then,
there's no point for you
to be coming down, okay?
I got you.
And if you don't make it
to your goal this next time,
then I don't know
what else we can do for you.
[Julian] Okay.
So go on the diet again.
And if you need anything,
give me a call.
Okay, thank you.
- All right, bye-bye.
- Bye.
Well, I felt like I lost weight.
Well, I mean, you already cut
down quite a bit? I don't know.
Like, are you supposed
to eat like, air now?
Yeah. I don't know.
We will see.
I'm just frustrated, you know.
For him to say I'm not trying.
It's just like a slap
in the face.
Because I know I could
have probably done better.
But at the same time,
I feel like I've had progress
that's not being accounted for
with that scale.
And just because it's not showing up
doesn't mean I haven't made progress.
So I'm pissed off
because of the scale.
I can understand if I stepped
on his scale and it said 830.
Yeah, I'll take all criticism there is.
But this scale... I can't trust this scale.
I know Dr. Now says it reads
800 pounds.
But maybe that scale
doesn't work, I don't know.
Maybe it doesn't work
at its highest potential.
And it reflect on me
pretty horribly right now.
For me, to not to say
I'm not trying,
which I am.
I know I'm trying.
And I just feel I've not
been given the credit for that.
So, that's why I'm pissed off.
I just have to try harder,
I guess.
Because getting weight loss surgery
from Dr. Now is my only chance I have left.
[Julian] For the past month
I've been doing what I said in my last
appointment, when I had talked to Dr. Now.
And I've been working on
cutting back my eating even more.
And it's been tough,
I'm not gonna to lie.
You know, I feel like I'm barely eating
to the point where I'm just starving.
To the point
where I feel weak at times.
So, because of that,
my workouts have decreased.
Because I don't have the energy.
And there have been times
that feeling has made me give in
to eat something I shouldn't.
But for the most part,
that has not happened.
Just because I feel like
I have less energy
doesn't mean I have been
giving up on my exercises, though.
I'm still getting in
my walking everyday.
And I know
I'm making progress with that.
Because I can do the whole
distance of the block now.
When I could barely make it 10 or 15
feet from my driveway when I started.
And I'm pushing myself
to do more each day.
- Good morning.
- Hey, Rose.
I don't care if you drop.
Walk up to the corner.
[Julian breathes heavily]
Come on Rose.
[Julian] That helps me feel
like I'm not in such isolation.
Because I'm out, and I get to see
people I haven't seen in a while.
-Guess what?
-What's that? [Julian breathes heavily]
You ain't walking fast enough.
- Ah, well, that's these slippers.
- [Rose laughs]
'Cause I don't want to trip.
They like to fold under me.
That feels good.
So, I'm already seeing the ways
my progress is benefitting my life.
And making improvements for me.
Next month,
when I check my weight again,
[Julian] I have
to be at my goal then
if I want to get the go ahead
from Dr. Now
to move to Houston
and get my surgery.
[exhales]
- [Julian] Babe, drive with two hands.
- [Irma] Shut up.
[Julian] I just hope
I haven't gained any weight.
But we'll see how it goes.
To see if this scale works.
- That's what I'm a little skeptical about.
- [Irma] Mm-hmm.
- [Julian] So...
- [Irma] Not like last time.
[Julian] See if Dr. Now is ready
to chew me another [bleep] oh...
[Julian] And if we can, you know, get
the ball moving on gettin' down to Houston.
[Irma] Mm-hmm.
[Julian] I'm headed to another
local clinic to check my weight again.
But I'm still a bit nervous,
you know...
because I'm ready to start
having bigger progress for myself.
And that's not gonna happen
until I move to Houston.
[Julian sighs]
So I know I have to have
the results
that Dr. Now is looking
to see from me today...
because I don't know what
more I can do at this point.
[nurse] Julian.
- [Julian] Yes.
- [nurse] Come on back.
Bye, baby. Love you too.
[Julian] All right.
There you go.
Can you turn around?
714.2.
Thank you!
Oh, my goodness.
Thank you.
[Julian] Thanks.
[FaceTime ringing]
Hello.
Hey, Dr. Now.
Hi, Julian, how are you doing?
I'm doin' good.
I'm doin' real good.
[Dr. Now] Great!
So what is your
weight doing now?
I'm down to 714 pounds.
Oh, so you lost
some weight, huh?
Yes, sir, I sure did!
That's great! You lost
over 100 pounds, huh?
116 pounds to be exact.
Yes, sir!
Okay, great.
And moving
in the right direction.
And once you move down here,
if you continue to lose weight, then
- Perfect. Thank you, Dr. Now.
- Okay.
Continue with your progress
that you're making.
- Yes.
- And continue to lose more weight, okay?
Yes, I am. I'm gonna continue doing
everything that you told me to do.
You've done a good job and,
uh... I'm proud of your progress.
So keep up the good work.
- Don't relax and go back to your eating habits.
- Mm-hmm.
And if you gain weight, then
we're not gonna move ahead
with weight-loss surgery
with you.
- Okay.
- In the meantime, if you need anything give me a call, okay?
All right, thank you, Dr. Now.
All right, buh-bye.
[Julian] Dr. Now is gonna go ahead
and approve me to move to Houston.
I didn't lose the amount
that he wanted me to,
but I lost enough.
He was excited about my
progress. He was happy for me.
And I-- I didn't get
chewed out like last time.
After hearing that response
from Dr. Now,
we're gonna go ahead and start
gettin' to packing so we can move.
If I lose more weight,
continue just eating
the correct way
that I'm supposed to eat,
he'll end up approving me
for weight-loss surgery.
That's the main thing
I'm looking forward to.
- [Irma] What?
- [Julian] Dr. Now, he approved us to move to Houston.
So we gotta get home
and start packing
so we can move.
- Okay.
- ASAP.
But he says as long
as I'm stickin' to my diet,
he's allowing me to move
so we can move to Houston.
Okay, um...
Um, I'm kinda freakin' out, baby,
'cause we don't have anything packed up.
I know.
So we gotta get to it!
[Irma] So we're
really leavin', huh?
Yes, we're really leavin'.
[Irma speaking]
Now, we're in Texas.
[Julian] This is our
second day on the road.
And so far, things are going
better this time.
And I think the weight I lost
and the stamina I have now
that's helping me handle
the road a lot better.
With this minivan, helping
me be more comfortable too.
I have more room.
We just made it into Texas.
And we're hopin' to make it all the
way to Houston by the end of the day
if I can handle it.
And so far,
I'm feelin' good still.
So as long as I can hold out, we
should be arriving in our new place
and starting
a new life here very soon.
[dramatic music playing]
[Irma inhales] Brother!
It melted off?
[Irma] Yeah.
- [beep] - [Irma] I kept
tellin' Julian. I'm like,
"There's something not right."
I'm like, "There's something
going on."
I'm like, "I don't see my brother. I
don't see my brother." "He's fine."
I was trying to call you. And the
[beep] call wouldn't go through.
But I said, "I told you that I
felt somethin' wasn't right."
[Julian] Why do you
keep sayin', like, I'm the one
who was goin' against
your intuition or something?
[Irma] 'Cause you were!
- You were like, "Baby, everything's fine."
- No, babe.
[Julian] How I'm supposed
to know?
What am I supposed to go with the
worst? I'm trying to calm you down.
And you makin' it like
I'm just goin' against you.
[Irma] Um, 'cause you...
That's a new slipper.
[Julian] But I knew it.
But that's not how you say it.
Man.
[Julian] This is basically
my nightmare.
[Julian speaking]
[Irma speaking]
[Julian] Alejandro's trailer
is not fixable.
We're in Texas.
And we have horrible service.
We was doin' fine
until this happened.
We might just leave this
trailer and leave our stuff.
Who even knows if there's,
like, a rental place around here?
[Irma] I found out what happened
'cause my brother called me.
He's all like,
"Hey, the tire went out."
So I was just, like,
imagining the worst.
He's all like, "But I'm okay.
I'm okay. I'm okay."
'Cause he knows I, like,
freak out for anything.
The longer we're here,
the more in danger we are.
And I don't wanna be a [beep]
sticker in the middle of the road.
[Julian] This is absolutely
the last situation
someone who's my size
wants to be in.
You know, I can't handle
the heat for long.
The only positive thing is
that I still have air conditioning.
So I'm okay for now.
But if we stay here long, my
fear is the car could overheat.
And we could run out of gas.
And if that happens,
it's gonna be very bad for me.
[Julian] Me and Irma have tried to
get a hold of a trailer rental place.
So far, either no one nearby
has one, or it's too far to go get.
And they can't bring it to us.
So we're still not sure
what we're gonna do.
Do you think we could get it
somewhere safer?
I mean, we can get new stuff.
We just can take, like, the
bare necessities and that's it.
We can't leave our bed!
Uh-uh, I'm not gonna sleep
on the floor. Are you crazy?
But it's still just stuff.
But it's a bed.
- I'm not gonna sleep on the floor.
- It doesn't matter.
- All right.
- Yeah, just get it in the dirt, brother.
All right.
[Julian] I guess we're
out of options at this point.
We just have to figure out what
we can get in the truck and the van.
And then we just
have to abandon the rest.
And that's what it
comes down to now.
We just can't stay out here.
And if we don't have another
trailer, there's no other options.
[Julian] This
is extremely disappointing.
And I'm very frustrated
because we're having to choose
between what we need to
survive and all our personal things.
So this is just
heart-wrenching for me.
[Julian] Just one more bad
thing to pile on me right now.
When I'm tryin' to do right and
work all that I can to get better.
So this is just upsetting.
[Irma] No, it's no use.
[Julian] But we'll do
what we have to do
because that's our only option.
[Irma] And this.
Are you okay with leaving
the punching bag or no?
[Irma] I'm sorry.
Hey.
[Irma] It's a... tornado.
It looks [beep] scary.
[Julian] It's not a tornado!
[Julian] Some bad weather's
rolling in.
And there's a tornado warning
for this area!
So as soon as we can, we gotta get
back on the road before that happens.
- [Julian] Shut the car off.
- [Irma] I am.
[Julian] And, hopefully,
it'll pass us by.
[sighs] It just sucks that we
have to get rid of everything!
We're gonna have to leave
[beep] deep freezer.
[Julian] We can't leave that!
- Why not?
- There's food in there.
Julian, we have no other choice!
[Julian] We're figuring out what
we can take and what we can't
so we can get outta here.
But it's just not
an easy process.
Baby, we can't take
all the boxes!
We have to!
But we can't!
But we have to.
The boxes are priority.
Baby, most of those boxes
are just [beep] paperwork!
There're not [beep]
paperwork, Julian.
Baby, we can't take every--
Fine, then you go see what's
[beep]... Go ahead.
[Julian] My stress level
is just high right now.
And I'll be honest. If I had food,
I'd probably be eatin' right now.
But I don't, so my focus is
on just figuring all this out.
I mean, we have to take
all the boxes.
We have to.
[Julian] But it's like
a lose-lose situation
because there's so much we
need that we just can't leave.
[Irma] Baby, let's go
back inside.
[Julian] We gotta get on the road
soon because when night-time comes,
we're not gonna have
the light to do this.
I gotta-- We gotta
look through this.
[Irma sighs]
[Julian] We're pretty much
out of time at this point
because it's late and we
have to get off the road.
A road utility person saw us
and they stopped
to put on their lights
to make sure no one doesn't
see us in the dark and hit us.
So, thankfully that's one thing we
don't have to worry about right now,
but we're just gonna have
to take a hit with our stuff
because that issue
we can't figure out.
We can't agree on what we need
to take between me and Irma,
and what we do agree on,
we can't find.
So we're just loading up
what we can
based off what we think is
in each box.
And hopefully when we get to
Houston and open everything up,
we have a lot of what we need.
If not, then I guess we'll
just have to figure it out.
And if I don't get the surgery
and all this doesn't pay off,
and then all the pain
and suffering we went through
was for nothing.
- [Alejandro] Right here?
- [Irma] On Meadow Drive.
It's this next street
right up here.
[Julian] We're finally
in Houston.
We're heading to the apartment
to get the keys and stuff.
[Irma] We're your
future residents.
[Julian] This has been
a long journey,
but I'm thankful to be here.
It looks like
a nice neighborhood.
We'll see exactly
how everything goes
once we get in
and get the place.
- We did it. Mm-hmm.
- Got it.
- Let's go check it out.
- All right.
[Julian sighs] Oh, this is
gonna be...
Yeah, we're upstairs.
Oh, baby, you're gonna
hate this.
Go ahead, bro, it's gonna
take me a minute.
[Irma] Dude, there's
mosquitoes in here!
[chuckling] Help.
[Irma chuckles]
Okay.
- Okay, I can work with this.
- All right, babe.
Okay, babe!
[Julian] After losing most
of our stuff on the road,
at that time I was second-guessing
it, and I wanted to just go back,
but I figure God didn't make
me go this far to just turn around.
It's probably his way of
saying we don't need that stuff
or it's the devil's way of trying
to make us not fulfill this journey.
So, it's just materials.
We can get that stuff back.
Ew, there's a bug right there!
[Irma squeals]
It's okay. We'll get him out.
Oh, this has got a closet, too!
- Look how huge it is.
- Damn!
I'm gonna go check
the other room.
I can work in there.
I can work in both.
Let's do the test.
Look, babe!
Holy [bleep]
I like the window.
I like the carpet, man.
The carpet is like...
Let's see how it feels
with no shoes on.
[Julian] So we're gonna
head to Dr. Now's
once we get done here.
I feel a lot better
now that we're here
and we're able to see the place.
We called Dr. Now yesterday
to give him an update
and I asked him if we can come
see him when I got here today,
so I can get my weight
and he can verify my progress
so I can see about hopefully getting
approved for my weight-loss surgery.
[Julian] It's been a tough three
months since this last weigh-in,
but I've been able to work hard
so I know I'll see some progress.
The question is, if it's gonna
be enough for Dr. Now.
So that's the only thing
that has me a little nervous.
It's gonna be all right, baby.
Julian.
[Julian] At my last appointment,
I made it down to 714.
And Dr. Now told me
to keep losing.
And I think I've done that,
but I'm hoping I made it to
at least the 600s at this point.
Your weight is 792.
[somber piano music playing]
[Julian] Just in shock
right now.
I'm scared to how
Dr. Now's gonna react.
I know he's gonna say I
haven't been trying, but I have.
I kept my focus on working to get
surgery because how bad I need it.
And I'm worried
because getting the surgery
is the whole reason why we
gave up our life to come here.
-Hello
-[Irma] Hi.
- How you all doing?
- All right and good.
[Dr. Now] Good. All right.
Well, I'm sorry to hear
about all the trouble you said
you had coming back down here.
But you finally
made it in one piece.
Yeah, we finally made it in one
piece and we got our apartment
and it's beautiful
and we made it.
All right, so the issue now is your weight
gain you had over the last three months.
You gained almost 80 pounds, so
what happened to your eating habits?
My eating habits has
been okay. I mean, it's...
I've been really stressful
and, like, I know it's not an excuse
to eat more and everything, but, um,
my father-in-law passed and it's just
been real hard trying to find, you know,
a place for my mom
and my grandma and all that.
But my eating habits are back
to where they need to be now.
No more cheating,
no more eating,
you know, things I'm not
supposed to eat.
What do you mean
no more cheating,
because you were
cheating before?
You said you think
you were eating good.
No, I won't say it's cheating,
you know, it's no excuse.
You know, well, like, what
happened with my father-in-law
and all that stress
I was going through, I just...
You say that,
but at the same time,
that's the excuse
you are giving me right now.
And I get that. You have had
a lot of hard things happen,
but life is full of hard things,
and it's okay to struggle,
but not to use it as an excuse
to justify damaging your health.
[Dr. Now] That's never okay.
[Julian] I know, I know,
and I'll do better.
So you need to get back
on track now
because you're back in just
the dangerous place you were
when you first came to see me.
You're almost back to the 800s.
So you need to decide if you're gonna
do this like you said when you told me
you're 100% committed.
- [Dr. Now] So here's what you need to do, Julian.
- Yes.
I want you to stick with
the original goal I gave you
and lose 100 pounds
over the next two months.
You're still where you could
easily lose 200 pounds in that time
if you stick to the diet.
If you do that, then I will schedule
you for weight loss surgery.
If not, then we're not moving
ahead with you, okay?
And, Irma, are you doing this
with him and losing any weight?
Not much.
Then you have to both motivate
each other. That's important,
- especially if you're thinking of having a family.
- Yeah.
- And that's gonna be some important thing for everybody.
- Yes.
And so get back on track
and work together to do that.
And I want you to lose
100 pounds in two months
if you want to move ahead, okay?
[Julian] Yes, sir.
I'm gonna do that.
- Okay. Well, I'm glad you made it to Houston...
- Mm-hmm.
and let's concentrate
on doing what you need,
and let's see how things go
over the next two months, okay?
- Okay.
- All right, see you all later.
See you later, Dr. Now.
- [Dr. Now] Okay, take care. Okay.
- Thank you.
[Dr. Now] It's obviously very
disappointing to see such a big move
back in the wrong direction
with Julian,
and it's also disappointing that
he's making excuses for that.
I understand that things
have been really hard for him,
but the big question
for Julian is
if food is worth his life.
Because at this point,
that's what he's risking
every day his weight stays
as high as it is.
So hopefully he gets
how serious this is
to get back on track,
to lose like he did before,
because his body
can't keep going like this.
[Julian] I'm disappointed,
very disappointed,
because I was hoping
and expecting
to be able to move ahead
with my weight-loss surgery
once I got down here.
So that's a bit of a blow.
But at least I'm still
in the game.
And so, as long as I am,
I still have a chance to fight,
and that's all I can do.
So, whatever it takes,
I'm gonna do it.
All right, babe, I'm gonna go
do my workout.
We'll be starting dinner
when I get back.
- Okay, baby. Be careful.
- Not gonna take me long.
[Julian] The past month has
been good as far as I'm concerned.
I've been able
to give my full focus
to get back on track
like how I need.
And I've been
working hard at that.
You know, I lost my punching bag
because I had to leave it on
the side of the road coming here.
But what I got to
replace it now is stairs,
so I've been using those
to do my exercises every day.
When I first started,
when I first got here,
I would have
to go down the stairs
just one leg at a time
and then come up
one leg at a time,
but now I can go down
both legs at a time,
and come back up
both legs at a time.
Because it's getting easier,
so I'm gonna probably add
another go up
and down the stairs.
So that'll be three times
I go up and down.
[Irma] You done, baby?
[out of breath] I'm
getting faster.
Good.
[panting] I might
up it to... three.
How was it, baby?
It was good,
I think it was getting easier.
I'm proud of you.
I started going down
just one at a time,
but now I can do both legs.
- Oh!
- Yeah.
- For real?
- Mm-hmm.
Nice!
[Julian] But right now,
after my second one,
I go inside
and do my upper body exercises
and Irma usually helps me,
like a trainer.
You need to work
on your legs, too.
[Julian] She's trying to give me
as much support as she can.
So we're doing this
as a team right now
because she wants
to see me succeed at this
as much as I want to.
If you want to,
you can relax a little bit
and then do the rest of the ten.
[exhales sharply] Okay.
[Julian] So she's being a big help
with me like this with my exercises.
And with the diet,
because we're both
eating the same
from Dr. Now's diet.
forty, okay.
[Irma] Do this one, the leg one.
How about this one?
This one don't have me extended.
[Irma] No. Do this one.
[Julian sighs] Okay.
So I'm feeling good
about how we're both doing
and our progress
because I'm more serious
about getting
to where I need now,
more than I've been
up to at this point.
And my hope is that
when I go back to see
Dr. Now in a month,
that it'll be enough
for me to make it
and get approved for surgery.
[pants and sighs]
Good job, baby.
Whoo!
Do one more...
I'm just kidding.
[laughs] I'm kidding,
I'm kidding.
Do you want me to start
cutting up the stuff now, or?
Yeah. Um, the onions? Yeah.
How do you want me
to cut the onion,
my way or your way?
You can cut 'em your way.
You sure?
'Cause you don't like it
when I cut it that small.
No, it's okay.
[soft guitar music]
I'mma come do the chicken.
Okay.
[groans]
I like a little salad
with my onions.
[laughs]
- It's really good.
- Yeah, it is.
Yeah, it's like, 10 minutes.
Man, believe it or not,
I am getting full.
- Good.
- Mm.
That was a really
good dinner, babe.
- Yeah, it was.
- I'm satisfied.
Me, too.
[Julian] Irma started
her new job
and she couldn't take off today,
so I'm having to go
to Dr. Now's
on my own today.
And I'm excited for myself
because I can finally
drive again!
And it feels good.
It feels good to be
behind this wheel.
It's been going on
eight or nine years
since I've been able to fit
behind the wheel
and I feel good.
But I'm still nervous
because I don't know
where my final progress is at.
But I know I'm lower
with my weight
than I've been in a long time.
And I've been working my
hardest to get back on track.
[sighs]
And I'm hoping
that's been enough for me
to finally be approved
for weight loss surgery.
The last time I was here
two months ago,
the scale said I was 792
and Dr. Now told me my goal
was to lose 100 pounds
from that.
That means I need to be
down to 692 today.
Julian?
[anticipatory music]
[nurse] We can step up
on the scale.
Your weight is 705.
Thank you.
That's a big loss,
and I feel good about that.
But I'm still nervous
because this appointment
can go one way or another.
You know, Dr. Now
could either see this amount
as a positive or a failure.
So I'm just nervous
because I'm not sure
how this is gonna go
and what's gonna happen.
[knocking on door]
- Hello.
- Hey, Dr. Now.
Hi, Julian.
How are you?
I'm doing good, and yourself?
Good.
All right, so,
where's Irma today?
She had to work.
So she miss your big
weight loss, huh?
Mm-hmm.
All right. And the last time, you
gained a little over 70 pounds.
So I was a little bit concerned,
but this time it looks like
you lost almost 100 pounds, huh?
Yeah, I guess I'm doing
something right.
Well, you still need
to get back more.
At your weight,
you should be losing more
if you're doing the diet.
But 90 pounds is a good loss
and shows me
you're back on track.
And since you're doing better
and you're losing some weight,
I'm gonna go ahead and approve
you for weight-loss surgery.
- Thank you.
- But I want you to stick with the diet.
And I'm gonna schedule
your surgery
for one month from now.
And at that time,
I want you to lose
30 more pounds
- Okay?
- All right. Yes, sir.
If you don't do that,
we're not gonna
move ahead with you
because the last time
we made good progress,
you went back
to overeating right after.
So you need to show me
you can stick with it
for a little longer.
- Okay.
- Well...
So far, you have lost
125 pounds.
Yeah.
So that's a pretty good effort that
you're doing with your eating habits.
So keep it up
and we're gonna see
what we can do with you, okay?
All right, thank you.
All right. I'll see you, then.
- See you.
- Okay.
[Dr. Now] I'm proud of Julian
for putting forward
the effort he has
over the past two months.
It's not quite
another 100 pounds,
but it's close enough to show me
he is willing to take back
some control of his life.
And as long as he shows me he's
gonna stick with the changes he's made,
to lose another 30 pounds this
next month, and his tests look good,
then we will
move ahead with him.
But if he repeats history, and start
to slip again, I will cancel his surgery.
But Julian doesn't have any more
time to waste, risking his health.
So hopefully, he continues
to take his situation seriously,
to stay on track.
[Julian] Irma's gonna be excited
to hear the news of my surgery.
So I feel really good right now.
You know, this time,
I'm not letting nothing
lead me back
to the wrong direction,
because I'm not letting anything
get to me, to where I lose this surgery.
[Julian] I'm feeling good right
now. A little nervous, but good,
because Dr. Now said he's moving
ahead with my weight-loss surgery today.
I stayed on track enough this
month, and I'm finally in the 600s.
And that feels good,
coming down from the 800s.
So Dr. Now says I'm ready
for this, and I agree with him,
because this has been
a long time coming.
So I know
I'm very ready for this.
[Irma] I think Julian's
gonna do very well,
because he's stuck to his diet,
even though he was like, "Babe,
I'm so hungry. I'm so hungry.
Like, I want to eat something."
I'm like, "Baby, well you can't.
You have to stick to it." And
he did, and I was surprised.
I did not think he was gonna
lose that much. But hey, he did it.
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
[Julian] I'm thankful for the
chance to take a step like this,
so I can start
to get my life right.
I wanted to be able to keep my
promises to Irma and my family,
by losing the weight.
And now I'm gonna finally have
the big tube to help me do that.
So I'm very happy right now,
and I'm looking forward to the
life this is gonna help bring me.
[nurse] All right, Julian.
This is your room.
[Dr. Now] Today, we are attempting
to do weight-loss surgery on Julian.
But this is going to be a more
difficult operation than usual,
because of the severe hernia
that Julian still has.
And because he is still
at a very large size,
so the first issue
we have to manage with him
is securing him
safely on the table.
Now that we have secured Julian
safely, we can begin the operation.
But the second big issue
we have with him is his hernia,
and whether it prevents us from
doing what we need, at any point.
Okay.
So first, I'm gonna attempt to
fix his hernia as best as possible.
[surgeon speaking]
[Dr. Now] Then,
I will move ahead,
and attempt to do a gastric
sleeve procedure on him.
- All right, bring the robot.
- [nurse] Yes.
[Dr. Now] And if we are able
to complete that,
then that will give Julian an important
tool to help him continue to lose weight.
Because what the surgery does
is reduce the stomach by 90%,
leaving a small narrow tube
that looks similar to a sleeve.
So the patient's food intake
is physically limited.
And the patient is less hungry.
So this operation will give them an
opportunity to lose even more weight.
So this will be a big help
to keep Julian on track
while we work with him to get him to
where he is able to maintain his progress
for the long-term.
But my concern right now is not
having enough time to do both surgeries.
If the situation
with his hernia is too severe,
because at his weight,
this is a high-risk surgery,
and because of that, we want to
limit the time he is under anesthesia.
Because it could start to put
too much strain on his system,
if we keep him under too long.
So we'll have to see what's
possible to do safely with him today.
His hernia is extremely severe.
There is a lot of mess from
a previous repair that failed,
and there is
a lot of pressure on it,
from all the weight
Julian still has on his body.
So to repair it fully
and do the gastric sleeve
is gonna keep him
under anesthesia too long.
So I'm gonna have to do a
partial repair of the hernia,
and then move on
to perform the gastric sleeve,
to prevent Julian's body from
being pushed to any limits.
Because, at his weight, that
would be a very dangerous situation.
Okay, I've finished a
partial repair of the hernia,
So now I'm gonna
complete the sleeve.
All right, we are almost done
removing his stomach.
[Irma] I'm feeling tired,
I'm feeling worried.
Mostly worried than tired.
They've been updating me
every hour, to see how he's doing.
Um, and I guess
they did find the hernia,
but I don't know if they
actually repaired it yet or not.
Um, and yeah.
I've been waiting here.
I feel nervous, because, like, I don't
know how he's doing in there, and...
I'm very anxious to see Julian,
because that's the only way
I'm gonna know that he's okay.
[equipment beeping]
What a long stomach.
Okay, all finished.
Julian's surgery went very well.
It was challenging, because he
has a, that big hernia was in the way.
So we have to get
a lot of adhesion done,
and get the pipe to the stomach,
and be able to do surgery.
So it was more complicated
than usual, with all his issues,
but we managed to get
the sleeve gastrectomy done,
and we will finish his
hernia repair down the road,
after he has lost more weight.
But this will be
a big help for Julian,
to help keep him on track with his
weight loss, while we work with him,
and get him to where
he will be able
to maintain healthy weight
for the long-term.
Right now, he'll be on a
liquid diet for the next month.
And he should be able to lose
another 40 pounds in that time.
Then he should be able to lose
between 25 to 30 pounds a month,
until he starts to get closer
to his target weight.
But overall,
I think Julian has done well.
And I'm optimistic that we
will be able to work with him,
to get him to his target
weight over the next year.
And in a place where he will be
able to maintain that for the long-term.
[groans softly]
[optimistic guitar music plays]
I'm so excited
that we can go out.
It's been years.
Years since you took me out.
[Julian] Me and Irma
are going out tonight.
And with all
my progress, I'm ready.
So we're gonna go to a dinner
and a movie tonight,
and finally have a normal date.
You always look pretty, baby.
Even without makeup.
Are you driving? Please
tell me you're driving, please.
- Yeah, I'll drive.
- Here, help me with this.
[Julian] The weight is starting
to come off fast right now,
so I'm excited about that.
And I know I'm still big.
[sighs] Let's go.
And I'm still worried about fitting
into the same places other people can.
But with all I've lost, I'm feeling
better about how I'm doing.
So I'm excited about that, and
I'm gonna keep working hard,
because I don't wanna slow down.
Thank you.
You're welcome, baby.
This past year has had
a lot of trials in it,
and there was moments I
wasn't sure about doing this.
But I'm so thankful that Irma kept
pushing me forwards, so I didn't quit.
- [Irma] Thank you.
- [Waiter] Thank you.
Oh, wow.
[Julian] But now I'm looking at a
life where I can take my wife out.
I was really sceptical
that we're gonna be this good.
[man] Here you go.
- Theatre two, second door on the left.
- [Irma] Thank you so much.
- [exhales] Is it good?
- Yeah, it's good.
- Good. Okay.
- This is good.
And I can go out, on
my own, and get a job,
and start taking care of things.
But the biggest thing is, this is gonna
give us a chance to start a family.
I would do anything
for that to happen.
But whatever the future
has in store for us...
I'm excited to be able
to do more.
And sharing things with Irma, and
have a life I get to enjoy with her.
So I'm gonna keep my focus,
and keep working hard
so I can make her happy by
being the husband she deserves.
And I'm looking forward
to being able to do that.